you heard at the top all of this concern
about China this is spooking the markets
a little bit today Jose right it's a
decline of under 2% for the doubt but
still down 460 points as a number that
catches your attention and when you look
at China's markets down five and a half
percent and down seven percent that is
certainly something that is catching
their attention today - I can't think of
three better people to talk about this
this morning bill you've spent so much
time going back and forth with China you
know the Chinese leadership very well
and can understand maybe what they're
thinking on some of these things Charlie
you've spent so much time getting
excited about investing there and Bill
you've invested there as well
Warren same thing all three of you have
traveled there and spent this time I
just wonder what you're thinking about
this morning as you hear these headlines
and Bill you're the new one at the table
today so I'll ask you to start off with
this what are your thoughts on what you
hear with this tweet and the potential
for a real trade war I think good trade
relations are incredible win-win for
both countries and it's dangerous that
people think this is a zero-sum game and
so I'm hopeful that despite the latest
announcement there is a trade agreement
in the the two countries can find ways
to work together it's the most important
relationship in the world both sides
bring a lot of strengths so it's I
understand why markets are a little bit
worried that that the these tariffs are
gonna get higher and higher when we
first got the tweet there had been some
initial reports that Lee who and the
delegation from China might not be
coming here that's what we were hearing
last night this is the first I've heard
just a moment ago that the the Chinese
have confirmed that they will be sending
that delegation this week that in itself
is good news but how do the Chinese kind
of deal with this when when they're
forced when they're faced with a real
force like I think that tweet yesterday
was well I'm not an expert on
negotiation but it creates a dynamic
where both sides could start asking
leading against each other which would
be a lose for both sides so you know the
you know this week will be it'll be
interesting you know they did even
though China's not a democracy that the
political dynamics don't allow them to
look like they're caving in to a
unilateral position Charlie you are an
expert of negotiation what do you think
well hardly but well if you back we put
a tariff on trucks to Varennes the
Japanese from totally squelching the
whole American auto industry and that
lasted a long time it wasn't the end of
the world so if we ended up with some
trade settlements that have of something
tariffs on both sides I don't get
excited about it at all I rarely as part
of normal life generally speaking I
think a good settlement is better than
lovely World War some cherubs are one
thing 10% we seem like our economy has
gone along just fine even with the 10%
tariff that existed on those 200 billion
dollars today it's 25% tariffs on
potentially all 500 billion plus of the
imports coming in would that concern you
about the American economy well I don't
think we want a full-scale tariff or as
it's just as high as both sides can make
it
that would be massively stupid and if
both of them are a little disappointed
with the negotiations and feel roughed
up that's so they should feel what do
you mean they should feel roughed up
well both sides since a settlement is so
much better for the war trade war for
both sides they ought to just get used
to having a little loss of face and make
some kind of a settlement and I think
they will what do you think about us
taking a stance as being America taking
a stance with China to this point well I
don't think Trump is totally crazy to
say that in some occasions you put a
tariff on to save something known as the
end industry
is he right that we have been on the
losing side of the deal for some time
there's a lot of Americans I think he
thinks of it more as a loss that we've
got a trade deficit and I don't think
that's it all automatic so I don't
totally agree with him but I agree with
some little bark Warren what do you
think in terms of who pays the tariffs I
mean that has boosted the US Treasury
but a lot of those tariffs are being
paid by the companies that import the
goods and then passed on to consumers
yeah there are tax on consumers and and
you know as such that it changes what
people buy it changes where things are
produced it readjusts you can readjust
the world you know in us through tariffs
and and generally speaking I mean
there's obviously exceptions for key
equipment military equipment or you know
but I generally think that a world that
adjusts to something very close to free
trade that more people will live better
than in the world that was significant
tariffs and shifting tariffs over time I
was subject of constant negotiations and
war two of those heavy crates on both
sides yeah not not a trade war you mean
a real war yes yes but you gotta
remember that like our country the
United States ran on tariffs for the
first 150 years that was all we had
this is not like some novel new thing is
coming in this is an old subject is it a
good thing or a bad thing
well of course I'd rather have a total
goodwill and everybody getting along but
I don't think it's the end of the world
there's some little tension on the
subject there has been since the start
of the country bill just now said he's
not surprised by the market's reaction
Warren said the same thing earlier this
morning what about you well what do I
care about
brief temporary reaction over some over
or over trade negotiations does that
mean they're all so many little ripples
in space-time to me look if you look at
Chinese stocks in one market down five
and a half percent and the other and the
Shenzhen market down by over seven
percent are our futures are down but
that's still a decline of less than 2%
this morning does that mean it's more
painful to China than to us well I don't
think China likes its market going down
as a consequence of a trade uproar I
think more like this similar thing
because they had this uproar today
settling is it sounds like a great
alternative but it certainly does there
have been a lot of friction along the
way the biggest one may be just how do
you enforce it and the feeling at least
among many of the trade negotiators and
the negotiators in the United States
that when we've cut deals with China in
the past they say things and then don't
follow through on it how do you make
sure that if we have a deal it's
actually enforceable I think China
buying larges is a pretty good place it
certainly worked well for the Chinese
and I think it's desirable but it's
worth it
it works well we want China to prosper
yeah we do if you postulate a world
where in the next 50 years the China or
for that matter the United States but it
feel like they're being abused and the
word isn't being kept and yeah it's for
one thing and then you want to ask for
one thing more I mean you're gonna have
always have tension between the two
countries you'll always have
disagreements but you can't you can't
really turn it word gets out if there's
something working out of control and
things can't get out of control but I
guess I'm going back to try and figure
out which side you think is right nobody
wants to say that does anybody think
they're both right to be as concerned as
they are and I predict they'll settle it
would you all agree with that same
prediction though what do you think
you know the it's a dilemma when it
appears you're reacting to a an
ultimatum you know in the in the Chinese
case there's no election scheduled so
their leader won't be unelected simply
because they've had to take a tough
stance on on trade negotiations
you know I markets up until recently
we're assuming this deal would get
closed so that's a little bit why you
see the Delta the rational thing would
be for a deal to get closed and I you
know I'd still rate that as as likely I
agree with deadlines are tricky things
so I mean that yeah they produce
reactions and people and they they can
particularly responding to public
opinion they can they can inflame people
and then they start reacting their own
they're tricky things on that ahead
sometimes it's best way to get things
done a good sign though may be that the
the just said that the Chinese
delegation will continue to come because
I had real questions about that or
doubts about that myself
after seeing that yesterday you want to
conduct a negotiation so it doesn't look
like the other guy has to cave or
something rather the ideal thing is to
make a here a lot of them and still get
the deal you want over the weekend at
the annual meeting you two had an aside
on stage a lot of people kind of picked
up on you didn't follow up on it so I
thought we could do that here you were
talking about Dairy Queen and how your
presence in China is not large but you
do have a presence in China
for Dairy Queen it is a very large
presence but not for Berkshire Hathaway
no but you made the comment Warren that
you you would have been a much larger
presence had a big deal gone through you
made it as a site to Charlie but it was
over the mics well we looked
but Dairy Queen no no I'm not turning
Dairy Queen into some global giant yeah
yeah we've looked at good sized things
in China anyway you know we've done a
couple things in China and Charlie's
done more individually and and it's
logical I mean with the kind of capital
we have the big markets outside the
United States they're gonna be the place
where you're most likely to do something
and certainly China's gonna be the
biggest market and outside the United
States and there should be opportunities
there
and I think we are someone at Berkshire
I think that that if they're looking for
capital around the world we're a very
logical prospect why did that deal not
work out was it because of the trade
tension there's I can't go into the
details on that
I don't try you'll be the first
developer in terms of what you do with
your businesses do these trade talks
have any impact on you on your
investments even your own personal ones
because you all have a large individual
portfolio that you do and Charlie I know
you focus larger than others focused a
lot on China does this diminish your
enthusiasm for Chinese investments in
any way no no it doesn't really if we
got a call today from some business we
understood and liked from China and they
were looking for a lot of nice big you
know we would be delighted to get that
call and we would follow through and
we'd say whether something happened but
that that would be that would be very
interesting to us bill how about you
well certainly you know there is in
parallel with the trade talks talks
about what the
technology export regime will look like
in terms of things like artificial
intelligence and so I have some concerns
about whether that will try and
partition you know Chinese students from
American students the general sentiment
towards China right now is has gone down
a bit and so there are businesses or
business deals that have to go through a
new process and they're talking about
even making that tighter
cepheus are beyond you I think so I you
know I'm I'm worried about even the sort
of intellectual cooperation being slowed
down well we'll see where that goes but
it's a concern if they take our
intellectual property at Dairy Queen
though we could handle it
you